Robotics

1. Ubtech Robotics Walker

Ubtech has been a pioneer in the industry with its humanoid robots, including an Alexa-enabled robot that can perform yoga too. However, the robot Ubtech previewed at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) expo is its most ambitious project.

The Ubtech Robotics Walker is a four-foot tall bot that has true bipedal motion, which enables it to not only walk around but go up and down stairs and even kick a soccer ball.

The version that was showcased in the CES 2018 was an early model and did not have arms but by the time Ubtech Robotics Walker becomes available in 2019, it will have all of its limbs, with a host of new abilities according to company representatives. The technology marvel Walker is studded with sensors like cameras in its head and torso, and auto detection sensors in its feet and sides, which help the robot, know when it is close to an object. When armed with the right programming, the robot can avoid things such as chairs and tables which come in its way. Ubtech Robotics Walker responds to vocal commands as well as visual cues and its head is a large touchscreen which has a camera on the top to control your smart home, help schedule your calendar, play music and dance, patrol the home, and provide visual surveillance and motion detection.

 

2. ForwardX CX-1 Robotics Suitcase

CES 2018 showcased a notable tech the first smart suitcase custom built to follow the owner. Recently unveiled ForwardX CX-1now called as Ovis is an autonomous piece of luggage designed to follow you around as you make your way from point A to B, and everywhere in between. Smart Technology isn’t it! This autonomous suitcase has been commercially launched in Indiegogo (international crowd-funding website to buy unique products), with early bird pricing beginning at $399.  The robotic suitcase has been implanted with a pair of eyes and brain and represents a meeting between a wheeled gadget and computer vision, armed with the intelligence and cognition to tackle complex problems like predicting the user’s path while avoiding obstacles.

Indeed, the Ovis has been branded as the world’s first self-driving carry-on robot featuring an array of advanced tech, including a 170-degree wide-angle lens that hosts a built-in facial recognition software, allowing the device to follow the user at up to 7 miles per hour. Other exciting features that include obstacle avoidance work in tandem with the suitcase’s tracking algorithm. Ovis comes with a smart wristband that works to keep thieves at bay, if the suitcase wanders out of range, the smart wristband bracelet will let the users know for an easy tracking.

 

3. Somnox Sleep Robot

Do you have irregular sleeping cycles? Do you toss and turn, read for hours to finally catch a nap? What about an assisted sleeping robot that may help your way to sleep? Surprised? Well, Somnox’s sleep robot can actually do that. The Somnox sleep bot looks more like a massive peanut; you hug it, to feel the soft rise and fall of its body, mimicking the users breathing. This calming effect is programmed to lull the user to sleep, as the breathing begins to match the slower pace of the robot’s own, while the soothing sounds help to relax the mind.

An app configures the breathing patterns and the music, with the length of time the sleep robot stays active during the night. The device does not provide any sleep tracking data or a smart alarm clock which makes a room for improvement.

At the moment, the robot does a basic function and is firmly built around the unusual breathing action. Somnox sleep bot comes with an expensive price tag it is sold through Indiegogo for nearly $600. That may be a lot of money for a gadget that may or may not help you sleep better and even does not provide any quantifiable data to establish how much difference it is making in your sleep.

 

4. Boston Dynamics SpotMini

Boston Dynamics, known to come up with uncannily agile robots, has unveiled its first commercial product to market, a small, dog-like robot it calls the SpotMini.

The launch was announced in May with the founder Marc Raibert adding that by July next year; Boston Dynamics will manufacture SpotMini at the rate of around 1,000 units per year. According to Raibert, SpotMini is currently in the testing stage for use in construction, security, delivery and home assistance applications. The SpotMini moves with the same smooth confidence as its processors rolled out by Boston Dynamics robots with names like Cheetah, Spot and BigDog. SpotMini is 3 feet high and weighs around 55 pounds, and can go where larger robots cannot. The robot comes with an optional snake-like arm, which attaches where a real dog’s head would be, and can perform tasks like opening doors.

 

5. Care OS Smart Mirror

Magic mirrors that talk back to you, would not be restricted to be a feature of fairy tales anymore. Science has made technological endeavours reach new heights. The Care OS mirror is another enthralling robotic marvel. The care OS deploys gesture controls and facial recognition to give skincare advice, and plays music and even takes selfies. It is similar to other smartphone apps in development which use the camera to study and analyse its user’s dermatological health. Additionally, it provides advice about hydration and UV exposure, albeit on a much larger, domestic scale.

 

6. Robomart

Robomart is the world’s first driving store, and makes trips to the grocery store a thing of the past. Robomart is an AI-assisted autonomous vehicle programmed to bring you foodstuffs to order. The robot is a blessing to food retailers who can lease the technology, and autonomously fulfill online grocery orders at a speed of up to 25 miles per hour. Robomart’s pilot launch is scheduled this summer for the Bay Area in California.

 

7. Sophia

Although Sophia the humanoid has been the talk amongst robotic circles, and there have been iterations in previous years, it was at the 2018 CES that Sophia made it to the news. Sophia is the brainchild of Hong Kong’s Hanson Robotics and is one of the most impressive displays of empathetic artificial intelligence and smart technology. Sophia is a milestone in humanoid robotics, and is powered by Google which assists the humanoid hold developed conversations with humans including philosophizing, smart retorts, and even cracking an occasional well-timed joke. While the developer has not announced the commercial applications as yet, Sophia remains a truly stunning example of the possibilities offered by smart AI.



Bio Technology

1) Oil-Eating Bacteria
In 2010, an explosion on the BP-owned Deepwater Horizon offshore drilling rig resulted in an estimated 3.19 million barrels of oil being released into the Gulf of Mexico.

It was the worst oil spill in U.S. history and could have had a catastrophic effect on the marine life and animal ecology in and around the Gulf of Mexico. Thankfully, some of the worst fears of the spill weren’t realized thanks to oil-eating bacteria. These microbes were able to break down some of the easiest molecules in the oil, and as the bacteria continued to reproduce and multiply, over time it’s been able to consume the majority of the oil that was spilled.

These bacteria, some of which were previously unknown to scientists, can now be used to help clean up future oil spills around the world.


2)Advanced Biofuel Technology
The U.S. Department of Energy defines biofuels as biomass that “can be converted directly into liquid fuels.” The two most common biofuels used in the U.S. today are ethanol and biodiesel.

In recent years, we’ve seen growth in the development of advanced biofuels. According to Environmental Entrepreneurs (E2), biofuels are “a non-petroleum liquid fuel that achieves a 50 percent reduction in carbon intensity compared to a petroleum-fuel baseline, as determined by the U.S. EPA and the California Air Resources Board.” A 2014 report commissioned by E2 states that the advanced biofuel industry is growing considerably.

The environmental advocacy group found that as of 2014, advanced biofuels capacity had grown to more than 800 million gallons, with more than 181 companies producing advanced biofuels made from materials such as feedstock and sugar cane. This cool innovation may serve as a future alternative to fossil fuels on a much greater scale


3)Lab-Grown Meat and Plants
As the world continues to grow, so does demand for beef, chicken and many other types of meat. Along with a need to provide enough meat for the world’s demand is a change among American millennials to eat more sustainably raised, organic meat. One day, though, we may not even need to raise animals for slaughter.

One San Francisco-based startup believes it has the answer and has attracted funding from the likes of Bill Gates and Richard Branson. Memphis Meats is working on developing meat from animal cells in labs, potentially creating the meat we love without killing an animal to get it.

Other companies are developing “clean meat” and “clean plant” technologies that could replace how we consume and grow our own food within a generation or two.

4) Biosensors
Medical technology is becoming increasingly sophisticated. And one key development that will start to shape the industry over the next decade is biosensors. Calibrated and designed to track various biosignatures such as blood pressure, pulse, breathing, and body temperature, biosensors will revolutionize how we monitor our health.

One biotech innovation company that’s leading the way is Sensible Medical. They’ve developed a vest monitor to help track the amount of fluid in the lungs of heart failure patients. If it reaches critical levels, the tech can issue an immediate alert to doctors at the hospital, potentially saving countless lives.

5) Bioplastics
Environmental and ecological concerns are fast becoming a major area of focus. People are increasingly conscious of the materials they use in their day-to-day lives. One material that has seen the most dramatic shift in the public consciousness is plastic. Estimates state that as much as 12.7million tons of plastic enter the ocean each year. It takes hundreds of years to break down and poses a huge threat to marine life. New strategies are beginning to help reduce our reliance on it. One method to emerge from the biotech industry has been the development of bioplastics.

More and more we’re seeing organic materials that will biodegrade over time, or can even be safely eaten, in place of plastic. It’s thought that use of bioplastics may increase 20% a year until 2021. These materials are far less toxic to the environment, while still maintaining many of the benefits of regular plastics.



Nano Technology
1) Russian doll nano-emulsions
Emulsions, mixes of immiscible liquids such as oil and water, are found in products that range from pharmaceuticals and pesticides to make-up and mayonnaise. ‘Multi-emulsions’, multi-layered matryoshka doll style, oil-in-water-in-oil systems have seen growing interest from academics in recent years. However, current methods work only on large-scales and produce single multi-emulsions at slow rates.

Now, academics from the US West Coast have developed a process to solve some of the problem incolved in creating multi-emulsions. Their technology uses sequential, high-energy emulsification to create nanometre-sized droplets of oil, suspended in water droplets, which are in turn suspended in a second oil. This innovation opens the door for products such as novel encapsulated drugs and pesticides, or even for ultra-low-fat salad dressings.


2)Nanotechnology is a growing research field that manipulates materials on a molecular scale. One prospect is to transform medicine by injecting nanobots into the body where they perform functions such as treating disease.


Researchers injected DNA into cockroaches. Tom Spinker/Flickr, CC BY-NC-ND
In February, an Israeli team described devices they made from DNA and injected into cockroaches. By performing a kind of origami, the DNA nanobots assembled themselves and were able to control a molecule that targeted specific cells, so demonstrating their potential to carry out medical functions such as attacking cancers.

3)Quantum optomechanics
Exploring the quantum-classical boundary.At the heart of modern physics lies a circle to be squared. Experiment tells us time and time again that the world at its most fundamental works according to the counter-intuitive laws of quantum mechanics. And yet the macroscopic world we live in seems solidly classical.Quantum optomechanics could help us resolve this paradox. It uses the pressure of confined photons, the quantum-mechanical particles of light, to manipulate the properties of mechanical objects ranging from the nanoscale to the macroscale.

Recent experiments have, for example, demonstrated how laser cooling – a technique initially invented to cool clouds of atoms – can be used to curb the vibrations of small mechanical devices. This opens up the fascinating prospect of mechanical resonators operating at the frigid temperatures where quantum effects come into play.

Such quantum resonators would have applications in sensing, metrology and quantum information processing, but what I find most intriguing is the possibility that an object visible to the naked eye can be put into a quantum superposition between two separated locations – so it is both here and there. Testing the predictions of quantum theory in a completely new regime of size and mass will bring fresh insights into where the boundary between the classical and the quantum worlds lies – and perhaps even to the great unfinished business of unifying quantum physics and gravity. Markus Aspelmeyer

4)Slow light
Lowering the speed limit.Light, the fastest thing in the cosmos, can be slowed to walking pace or even stopped in its tracks. Who would have thought it?.Actually, it is a sleight of hand: it is not the light that is slowed or stopped, but the information that it carries. Send an energy-tuned pulse of light into a cloud of supercooled atoms known as a Bose-Einstein condensate, and it resonates with the atoms of the condensate, allowing information to be transferred from the light to the atoms. A second laser pulse can then pull the information out of the atoms and carry it away.This is good news. If we can master the fiddly details of the technique, the ability to store light-borne data indefinitely could usher in the age of super-fast optical computers that do away with cumbersome silicon components.


